As I have commented on other
occasions, canvas is not a
tool that allows us to only
describe a business model,
but it is also a very useful tool
that from that description
we can do analysis, we
can get conclusions,
since identify strengths,
weaknesses, etc., and also try
to evolve that model, look
for some innovation in the
business model.
Today we are with Carlos Frutos, whom
I have asked to help us by explaining
this process that I have just told
you from the description,
analysis and evolution.
I have asked him to help us because
he is an expert in this tool and for
many years what he has been is, well,
a speaker and helps in talks
especially to business owners,
small and medium-sized enterprises,
to incorporate this
methodology as one of their
strategic tools.
And we will do it with a case,
we will analyze the case of a pharmacy,
because for certain circumstances
it is also an expert in this
business model.
So, Carlos, what we can do
is, well, thank you so much
for being with us.
Many thanks to all of you.
If you like, let’s go ahead,
you explain, we’re drawing the
canvas together.
Perfectly, because the principle is
to clarify that we have chosen a
pharmacy business model because
it is an easy model to analyze,
I do not say that it is easy to manage,
but it is easy to analyze and
very rich in terms of possibilities
of evolution and are at a time of
transformation where it applies
very well this methodology
of analysis and evolution
of business models.
The first convenient block to analyze
in every business model is that
of customer segments, because
in the end of every analysis
the first one must be the customer
we address.
In the case of this pharmacy,
we are talking about a traditional
neighborhood pharmacy, we are
not looking at a tourist pharmacy
or other more advanced pharmacy
models, we find that the customer
segments that this pharmacy
has is only one and it is
the neighbors that it has
around the pharmacy
office, private, close graphically.
It may seem that there are
other segments such as women,
as teenagers, third age, but the
reality is that the pharmacy,
this pharmacy we are analyzing,
is directed indifferently
to all these segments and
therefore we cannot talk about
different segments of customers
because there are no different
value proposals for
them.
Well, not a lot of people, it is
not that almost everyone, when
you ask them to describe the customer
segments of their business,
starts to detail thousands
of segments, ages, sex, geography,
when in the bottom
everyone is giving them
coffee for everyone.
Effectively, we have to that excessive
segmentation thinking that we have
special things for them and it
is not true, in the case of a pharmacy
offers everything it has at the disposal
of customers, that to analyze
is the offer of products and services
that my pharmacy offers to the
neighboring customer segment and
here we have to do an analysis
of a certain high level, it
is not necessary a detail for
the effects of the model analysis.
We are talking about two
large, mainly medicines, whether
they are genetic brands, even master
formulation, if some pharmacies
have it, and on the other hand
for pharmacy, everything that is
not medicine, products for sale.
That’s what a pharmacy sells today.
They have practically no services, services
that are very irrelevant, although they
are already gradually
incorporating them, too, that
depends on the legislation.
The next block to analyze are the
distribution channels, how my business
model reaches the customer segments
to offer them the products
and services, offer you,
show you, give you after-sales,
depends on the model we are
talking about.
In the pharmacy, yes.
Here we would find alternatives
such as an auto vending machine
if it were the case, some
pharmacies have it, or even a web
channel if we were analyzing
a pharmacy that sells online.
There are very few or none.
Yes, but I put as examples of alternative
channels so that you understand
well what kind of channels
can be in this block.
From the point of view of
customer relations, in the case of
the pharmacy we are analyzing,
it is a demonstrative relationship,
a personal relationship of pharmaceutical
care.
We’re not talking about it like it
could be in other business models of
commercials or a self-service
relationship, etc.
Here we are basically talking about
pharmaceutical care based on demonstration.
I would say, Carlos, that to explain
it a little more, I would
describe a little, it’s a close
relationship, isn’t it?
It is a close relationship based,
as we will see later, on the
trust between the pharmacist and his
team and the neighbors, which
we could basically call a personal
or demonstrative relationship.
Yes, the demonstrator is okay, yes.
The next block to analyze, which
I have liked because it usually
gives a lot of play, as we
will see later, is the flow
of income.
This business model we are looking
at only has a revenue
flow and is the sale of products.
There is no more.
In some cases, I’m told, man, it’s not the
same whether it’s with or without a prescription.
No, the flow remains the same,
selling products, regardless
of whether one covers the bill
via credit card or via prescription
that will take time to pay the
standalone meal by turn,
for one, three or six months.
The concept we enter
is selling products.
Yes indeed.
You sell a drug or sell a project
for the pharmacy and snakes by
the point.
It is curious because I have perceived
it when you analyze with businessmen
of different business models
the flow When you ask them
that they can,, you ask other
alternatives, it seems to
them a thing like science fiction.
I do this, I sell products,
I do this.
Because they have not raised
it, but it is the block in which
we can find the biggest innovation
today.
We will see it a little later,
when we analyze and evolve the
model.
We will see, yes.
The next block we have to
analyze are the key resources.
What resources does our pharmacy
need to operate?
There is an absolutely important
resource that is the owner of
the pharmacy, because without it,
in current legislation, a pharmacy
cannot be started.
And all the additional resources,
such as human resources, the stock
of medicines and for pharmacy that
we have to sell.
A resource that emerges relatively
recently in the pharmacy
sector is funding.
Maybe years ago it wasn’t necessary.
Today, due to problems
with late payments of the
national health system, funding
has become a key resource
for running the pharmacy
business model.
That is, you have to have
a local with the partner, you
have to have some employees,
you have to have a stock
of medicines and the rest
of products and also you
have to have some capital to
finance, to finance the operations
for a while, so they tell
us, which now requires it.
Or have the capital or have
the external financing capacity
for that delay in payment.
The next block is the key
activities.
In the pharmacy office we are evaluating
there are two major activities.
No need to detail much more.
The first has to do with all the management
of purchases, rotations, obsolescence,
expirations.
It is very important in this the stock
and rotations in order to
improve profitability and
to reduce costs.
And a second important
global activity that is
all about pharmaceutical
care, sales, patient
and customer care.
There can be other derivatives
such as the training of staff that
is very important but that first
is not done in a very intensive
way and we could be a larger
order than the others.
Look I here would tell you Carlos
that I am seeing, I am thinking
of the resources that is key that
you have told us and the key activities
and I would tell you that they
are very common to all retail activity
because in the end if you think
it is a pharmacy or a point
of sale that sell other kind of
things always you need local,
you need employees, you need
certain stock usually and the
key activities are to buy and
sell.
In this case I think we can
bring the fact that this can be
true or this that is explaining
to us could be a pattern really
common to another type of
business models, mainly
retail.
It shares with retail as you say
several things but there is a
certain specificity in a particular
pharmacy, the license as such that
is not produced in other retail and
all the part of the product
that it sells associated not only
with expirations that that could
be common in some other retail
but also to the type of product
financed by the health system.
Effectively that is different and
the key resource is the fact
that you have to be the owner
of a resource that is regulated
above because it has many implications
as far as entry barriers
etc. But well there are certain,
we could say that the model
we are seeing shares or is
a retail pattern.
Well we go ahead.
The next I think would be the
ecosystem of alliances here
we have to include all the
alliances that allow us to give
a better service, expand our
offer, win in brand, etc.
In the case of pharmacy we are talking
about suppliers as are the
laboratories and wholesalers, the
cooperatives that provide product
to our and a very interesting and
very important alliance is that
of the pharmacy school of the
community or the province in
which it is concerned because it
is what allows to group all the
pharmacies and improve their
conditions to manage the electronic
prescription etc.
That is, in principle here Carlos
no longer focused on the pharmacies
but in general on the ecosystem
of alliances that is what we have
to think of all external relationships
that help in some way.
Of course they help us now or they
could help us in the future, for
example prescribing our products,
gaining brand, acquiring or outsourcing
resources instead of having
them incorporated, all of
which has to do with external
resources that help our
sales model.
It is very good, and I think
the cost is clear.
And finally the cost structure
is simple, generally the costs
are derived from the resources
that our business model has,
although sometimes the costs
are also increased by
some type of activity, such
as a marketing activity or
some type of relationship
with customers, a relationship
through the web that would
impact the costs as such.
And this is our business model
as you see it is a simple model
to analyze and in exchange as
we will see below Rich in terms
of its analysis and possibilities
to evolve.
It is worth, as we have seen Carlos
has described the model, he also
knows it well, he has described
the business model of a pharmacy
that as we have seen also
shares certain patterns with
other models of retail, although
with some particularities
such as a regulated sector,
which tells us about financing,
etc.
What we will do now from
now on is we will get conclusions,
we will do an analysis,
we will do it in the
next class.